---
layout: post
title: "Marking test functions with attributes"
summary: Chapter 6
featured-img: ipad
---

# Marking test functions with attributes

By using the `pytest.mark` helper you can easily set metadata on your test functions. There are some builtin
markers, for example:
- `skip`: always skip a test function
- `skipif`: skip a test function if a certain condition is met
- `xfail`: produce an “expected failure” outcome if a certain condition is met
- `parametrize` to perform multiple calls to the same test function.

It’s easy to create custom markers or to apply markers to whole test classes or modules. Those markers can be used
by plugins, and also are commonly used to select tests on the command-line with the `-m` option.

6.1 Registering marks
---
You can register custom marks in your `pytest.ini` file like this:
```
[pytest]
markers =
	slow: marks tests as slow (deselect with '-m "not slow"')
	serial
```
Note that everything after the : is an optional description.
Alternatively, you can register new markers programatically in a `pytest_configure` hook:
```python
def pytest_configure(config):
	config.addinivalue_line(
		"markers", "env(name): mark test to run only on named environment"
)
```
Registered marks appear in pytest’s help text and do not emit warnings (see the next section). It is recommended that
third-party plugins always register their markers.

6.2 Raising errors on unknown marks
---
Unregistered marks applied with the `@pytest.mark.name_of_the_mark` decorator will always emit a warning
in order to avoid silently doing something surprising due to mis-typed names. As described in the previous section,
you can disable the warning for custom marks by registering them in your `pytest.ini` file or using a custom
`pytest_configure` hook.
When the `--strict-markers` command-line flag is passed, any unknown marks applied with the `@pytest.
mark.name_of_the_mark` decorator will trigger an error. You can enforce this validation in your project by
adding `--strict-markers` to `addopts`:
```
[pytest]
addopts = --strict-markers
markers =
	slow: marks tests as slow (deselect with '-m "not slow"')
	serial
```
